Now was Kanye the most overlooked? Yes sir
Now is Kanye the most overbooked? Yes sir
Though the fans want the feeling of A Tribe Called Quest
But all they got left is this guy called West
That'll take Freeway, throw him on tracks with Mos Def
Call him Kwa-li or Kwe-li, I put him on songs with Jay-Z
I'm the Gap like Banana Republic and Old Navy, and oooh
It come out sweeter than old Sadie
Nice as Bun-B when I met him at the Source awards
Girl he had with him - ass coulda won the horse awards
And I was almost famous, now everybody love Kanye
I'm almost Raymond
Some say he arrogant. Can y'all blame him?
It was straight embarrassing how y'all played him
Last year shoppin my demo, I was tryin' to shine
Every motherfucker told me that I couldn't rhyme
Now I could let these dream killers kill my self-esteem
Or use my arrogance as the steam to power my dreams
I use it as my gas, so they say that I'm gassed
But without it I'd be last, so I ought to laugh
So I don't listen to the suits behind the desk no more
You niggas wear suits cause you can't dress no more
You can't say shit to Kanye West no more
I rocked 20,000 people, I was just on tour, nigga
I'm Kan, the Louis Vuitton Don
Bought my mom a purse, now she Louis Vuitton Mom
I ain't play the hand I was dealt, I changed my cards
I prayed to the skies and I changed my stars
I went to the malls and I balled too hard
"Oh my god, is that a black card?"
I turned around and replied, "Why yes
But I prefer the term African American Express"
Brains, power, and muscle, like Dame, Puffy, and Russell
Your boy back on his hustle, you know what I've been up to
Killin y'all niggas on that lyrical shit
Mayonnaise-colored Benz, I push Miracle Whips

[Hook: Kanye West]
And I am
(Here's to the Roc)
And they ask me, they ask me, they ask me, I tell them
(Here's to Roc-A-Fella)
Raise your glasses, your glasses, your glasses to the sky and
(Here's to the Roc)
This is the last call for alcohol, for the
(Mr. Rockefeller)
So get your ass up off the wall

"... last call for alcohol, for my niggas"

[Outro]
So this A&R over at Roc-A-Fella, named Hip Hop Picked the "Truth" beat for Beanie. And I was in the session with him. I had my demo with me. You know, like I always do. I play the songs, he's like "Who that spittin?" I'm like "It's me." He's like "Oh, well okay."
Uhh, he started talkin to me on the phone, going back and forth
Just askin me to send him beats, and I'm thinking he's trying to get into managing producers, cause he had this other kid named Just Blaze he was messin with

So won't you raise your glass won't you
So won't you raise your glass won't you
So won't you raise your glass won't you
So won't you raise your glass won't you

And um, he was friends with my mentor, No ID. And No ID told him, "Look man, you wanna mess with Kanye you need to tell him that you like the way he rap"

No ID: "Yo, you wanna sign him, tell him you like how he rap"

[Saxophone Solo]

I was all, I dunno if he was gassin' me or not but he's like he wanna manage me as a rapper AND a producer

[Hiphop: "I'll sign you as a producer and a rapper"]

I'm like oh shit. I was messin with, uh, D-Dot also. People were like this, started talking about the ghost production but that's how I got in the game. If it wasn't for that, I wouldn't be here. So you know, after they picked that "Truth" beat I was figuring I was gonna do some more work but shit just wasn't poppin off like that. I was stayin in Chicago, I had my own apartment, I be doin like, just beats for local acts just to try to keep the lights on, and then to go out and buy, get a Pelle Pelle off lay-away, get some Jordans or something or get a TechnoMarine, that's what we wore back then
I made this one beat where I sped up this Harold Melvin sample I played it for Hip over the phone, he's like, "Oh, yo that shit is crazy Jay might want it for this compilation album he doin, called The Dynasty. And at that time, like the drums really weren't soundin right to me So I went and um, I was listening to Dre Chronic 2001 at that time.And really I just, like bit the drums off "Xxplosive" and put it like with it sped up, sampled, and now it's kind of like my whole style, when it started, when he rapped on "This Can't be Life."

And that was like, really the first beat of that kind that was on The Dynasty album. I could say that was the the resurgence of the soul sound You know, I got to come in and track the beat and at the time I was still with my other management. I really wanted to roll with Hip Hop cause I, I just needed some fresh air, you know what I'm sayin cause I been there for a while. I appreciated what they did for me but, you know there's a time in every man's life where he gotta make a change. Try to move up to the next level. And that day I came and I tracked the beat and I got to meet Jay-Z and he said, "Oh you a real soulful dude."

[Jay-Z: "Oh you a real soulful dude, man"]

And he, uh, played the song cause he already spit his verse by the time I got to the studio. You know how he do it, one take. And he said

[Jay-Z: "Check this out, tell me what you think of this, right here"]

"Tell me what you think of this." And I heard it, and I was thinking like, man, I really wanted more like of the simple type Jay-Z. I ain't want like the, the more introspective, complicated rhy- or the... in my personal opinion. So he asked me, "What you think of it?"
